this morning everything it needs to know
about the coronavirus and keeping your
family healthy with new cases being
reported daily it's important to know
how to prevent the spread of germs and
that's where we're gonna start with dr.
oz who's here we know about washing your
hands it seems simple let's dive deeper
into it I've heard 20 seconds is that
right 20 seconds this is we're gonna
give you a bunch of tips it's
coronavirus survival kit think of it
that way to beyond today Troy calm so
one sheet dr. oz social sites printed
out give it to your friends we were
start with the DIY vaccine okay
everyone's eyes were wash their hands
but it's about keeping your fingers
clean yeah that's why we fist bump why
because this is one-tenth the number of
bacteria that if you shake someone's
hand you're Emily so it matters like
washing your hands is not just about
getting your fingers wet we actually
have a working sink here right they put
the soap on there but this is pretty
critical once you get the soap on your
hands don't just wash the back of your
wrist no one cares
it's your fingertips that matter okay
with the Turkish twist you see a little
movement there yeah right right back
this is how the health workers do it yes
is what we do in the operating room
which is why this is important what the
World Health Organization recommends
then once you've done that you do a
little thumb twist right you keep it a
typical finger why the thumb because
it's opposing fingers for a reason but
we'll touch our face is our index finger
or our thumb so keeping those team
matters and you finally grease the palm
up too early okay
reach the palm get the fingertips clean
like this now you got 20 seconds to
meditate on life no don't think about
just staying calm realize that word can
do nation we can stay ahead of this you
just give the health care system a
little bit of time we'll work this out
how do you turn the sink off I would
just know that's not the way what you
might think I mean I know you take a
napkin darn good everything for you
Carson writing a napkin take a nap you
use this I do this in public bathrooms
or not at home well at home if there's
verses of the family you got to protect
each other listen you're not gonna get
sick and die with someone dear to you an
older person with critical illnesses
autoimmune problems their will so you
got to take care of the house then use
this to exit the door as well fits and
publishes my new problem I work I wear
contact lenses they're disposable my
fingers are in my eyeballs all the time
is what a tip be just wear your glasses
more right now I know the bigger tip is
keep your fingers clean because you're
gonna touch your eyes whether you're
printing contacts in or not would be it
mathematically if you look at the
numbers I'll keep some people up to
3,000 times that's GAD though right
that's right that's virus right to Bob
you can go that's
this fact is that path because I cop in
your face it passes because I touch
something this is called the fomites in
an inanimate object
the virus is on there for seven eight
nine days you know we're stealing your
time go go elastic up see the commotion
over there Savannah thank you doctor
eyes we have important such talked about
with dr. Torres don't we we didn't
sanitize it is it as good as washing
your hands it's almost as good as
washing your hands if you can get to a
sink that's the best thing to do but a
lot of times we're not in the air sink
so you want to use hand sanitizer people
use these alcohol gel hand sanitizers
that are everywhere are they all created
equal essentially the main thing is you
want to make sure it has at least 60%
alcohol that's the key to them and if
you buy it on the market more than
likely this they'll become a label
reader okay the way you use it is you
take basically you put a bunch on your
hands you want to cover how much that
weighs a lot right and you could you
want to be able to cover your whole hand
okay you work it through your fingers
and essentially you just keep working it
until it's dry it's gonna take about 20
seconds so don't stop rubbing until it's
dry that's what happens is people tend
to do this yeah and then they get to a
point where robbing making it more
effective it is and it has to be on your
hands for at least 20 seconds for an
order for it to kill the virus okay so
and then assuming you don't go dunk your
hands into dirt like how long does this
stay effective doesn't stay effective
until next time you touch okay and then
you get it on your hands but the one
thing to remember is remember you're
gonna be doing this and then the next
thing you're in do is you pick up your
cell phone yeah that cell phone who
knows where that thing's been so you
wanna make sure so or if you're not if
you're looking at service oh I'm not
alone pick it up but if you're if you're
somewhere out and about and you're in a
public places your keyboard at work you
want to clean them there's two different
ways there's the sprays and the wipes
these essentially are made for this type
of thing and what the CDC says is
regular household products or work
household cleaning Lysol whatever right
but a lot of these you can see they say
oh no specifically especially the wipes
you'll kill 99.99% of the germs
if you look on the back a lot of times
they say we'll kill human coronaviruses
which is something they think they've
had since the SARS epidemic you know
back a few years ago the main difference
being with the sprays you can get more
penetration with the wipes they're more
convenient the big thing is you want to
put them on the surface and you want to
let them dry on the surface don't wipe
them off let them dry I'm not rubbing it
in with a paper towel no well the wipes
you're rubbing in with the
these ones you want to just spray as
much as you can brand let it let it dry
if it's been there longer than ten
minutes they say ten minutes is kind of
the maximum at that point you can go
ahead and dry it off the most part just
let it have to say antibacterial or is
it like if it says disinfectant or
bleach or whatever it were if it says
disinfectant or bleach this should work
we're actually putting a link on our
website on today com it's gonna that the
CDC approved wipes and sprays but you
can go to but essentially it as hydrogen
peroxide ammonium chloride ammonium
hypochlorite those are the ingredients
you need to know about we gotta go in
the event that you have to self
quarantine like here in New York State
thousand folks have been asked to self
quarantine you find yourself caring for
someone who may have been exposed good
idea to be prepared for that NB c--
investigative and consumer correspondent
Vicki Wynn is here with a shopping list
of things to have on hand just in case
and we start with the dry goods so
important and you don't have to run out
and get it all now but let's start
adding to your shopping list the next
few trips you probably already have some
of this pasta dry goods rice super
important beans that's good don't forget
about the kids with the nut butters some
jellies protein bars are a great thing
oatmeal and but I don't know about you
but I have to have popcorn and lives in
my house but not a survival thing but
it's a comfort thing canned goods same
thing canned meats a great idea these
are gonna last you a long time and
that's the key
the idea is you may not be getting out
to the market for the next couple of
weeks or longer if you end up developing
symptoms so you want to have these items
that are shelf stable in your house you
want to remember the pets absolutely one
of our Twitter followers actually said
hey don't forget about the animal
supplies that's important sometimes your
pets you need meds not to mention the
food or other items are gonna need plus
a bottled water supply
this is CDC and the department of
homeland security not worried about
contamination in the water supply but
always a good idea to have some extras
for any sort of emergency toiletries and
medications here hygiene products as
well and let's talk about baby products
you know how quickly those babies go
through their diapers so you want to
have things at home that make you feel
comfortable that's gonna help you reduce
the anxiety because you're going to feel
like hey I have what I need if I need to
hunker down for a couple of weeks or
longer this is vital we were talking
about this last week the
over-the-counter medicines it's cold and
flu season anyway so they talked about
how there's no cure for kovat nineteen
you're just gonna want to alleviate
symptoms and stay comfortable so that
means having pain relievers cough
medicine if you rely on prescription
drugs do what L did get that extra two
months supply right now so you happy you
have peace of mind in case there's any
sort of disruption to the supply chain
and the cabin fever can get real yes
100%
you could get bored once you're done
binging you're going to want to have
those games have those books things you
can do as a family if you're not
isolating folks from each other this is
really important go back to old school
stuff read a book maybe that two weeks
of quiet time will do you some good
or actually sit and talk to each other
in that crazy old fat stop a big thank
you dr. oz dr. John dr. Dre thank you of
course you get all of it on the website
today dot-com
you